Querymindr — Installation & Setup Guide

Before You Start (Both Mac & Linux)
You'll need Node.js and pnpm installed. Do this once:
Download and install Node.js from nodejs.org (choose the LTS version)
Open Terminal and run:
npm install -g pnpm
Your external drive must be connected and mounted before running the installer.

Mac Installation
Optional but recommended — adds a menu bar icon:
xcode-select --install
Follow the prompt if it appears. Skip this if you already have Xcode installed.
Install Querymindr:
Download the Querymindr zip file and unzip it into your Downloads folder
Open Terminal and run:
cd ~/Downloads/querymindr && bash install-querymindr.sh
The installer runs, then opens Querymindr in your browser automatically
That's it. Querymindr runs silently in the background and starts automatically every time you log in — no Terminal needed after this.
A magnifying glass icon appears in your menu bar. Click it to open the app or run a Quick Update at any time.

Linux Installation
Download the Querymindr zip file and unzip it into your home folder
Open Terminal and run, replacing the path with your actual drive location:
cd ~/querymindr && ROOT_DIR=/media/yourname/drivename bash install-querymindr-linux.sh
The installer runs, then opens Querymindr in your browser automatically
Querymindr runs as a background service and starts automatically at every login.
Useful commands:
systemctl --user status file-finder    # check if it's running
systemctl --user stop file-finder      # stop it
systemctl --user start file-finder     # start it again
journalctl --user -u file-finder -f    # view live logs

Opening Querymindr
Once installed, open your browser and go to:
http://localhost:8080/file-finder/
Bookmark this — it's your app. It only works on your own computer; it is not accessible from the internet.

First-Time Setup (Settings Page)
Click Settings in the left sidebar.
1. Claude API Key
Querymindr uses Claude AI for natural language search. You need an API key from Anthropic:
Go to console.anthropic.com, sign up, and create an API key
Paste it into the Claude API Key field and click Save Key
Without this, keyword search still works — only AI search requires it
2. AI Model
Claude Haiku — faster and cheaper, great for most searches
Claude Sonnet — more powerful, better for complex or vague queries
3. Auto-Update Schedule
Controls how often Querymindr automatically scans for new or changed files in the background:
Disabled — never runs automatically; use the buttons manually
Every hour — keeps the index very current
Every 12 hours — the default (runs at midnight and noon)
Every 24 hours — once a day
4. Checksum File Size Limit
Controls which files get fingerprinted for duplicate detection. Larger limits catch more duplicates but take longer to index:
100 MB — default, covers most audio tracks
250 MB — covers stems and rendered mixes
500 MB — covers most video exports
5. Index Engine — Building Your Index
Point Querymindr to your drive and build the searchable database:
Enter your drive path in the Root Directory field
Quick Update — scans only folders that changed recently. Finishes in minutes. Use this regularly.
Full Re-index — scans every file from scratch. Takes several hours. Use only after a major reorganization of your drive.
The index must complete at least once before search and duplicate detection are available.

